you might think that this is just about
the last place that a bird or any other
animal would choose to sleep this is an
oil refinery on the banks of the Amazon
River in central Brazil just across the
water
this lovely virgin rainforest get here
well just look for listen
a fine mist of acrid drop it stings your
eyes
the noise hurts your ears
yet promptly at five minutes past six
o'clock every evening there is an
invasion
you
purple martins stay still and they will
settle within inches on
[Music]
why they come here in such numbers is a
mystery it can hardly be that they seek
warmth in this muggy tropical atmosphere
of central Brazil they don't feed here
perhaps it's because there are fewer
hawks around too hairy them than in the
forest
but whatever the reason come they do
in March however many of them will
migrate north to the United States and
there they take up residence in very
different homes
[Music]
a small lakeside town in Pennsylvania
this luxury car block has a combination
for over 40 adults and 200 youngsters
each apartment has all modern
conveniences
it could be wound down regularly by the
local people and the Shelf brought out
to make sure that the young are fit and
don't need any help with the
housekeeping in fact these apartments
are so luxurious that these days purple
martins you don't nest in natural sights
anymore
the purple Martin has become totally
dependent on human beings
[Music]
it said that the tradition was started
by the people native to this part of
North America Choctaw and Chickasaw
Indians you are glad to see the birds
when they arrive lead spring and hung
out goods to encourage them to nest
around their settlements today over a
million people in the United States I
for hospitality - purple martins in this
way it seems that those of us who live
in towns and cities feel increasingly
cut off from the natural world that lies
beyond our buildings and so we treasure
any contact we can find with wild
creatures certainly an affection for
birds are shared by all kinds and
conditions of people all over the world